Remove equivocating validators from fork choice consideration (#2845)
ethereum/consensus-specs: specs/phase0/fork-choice.md

    finalized_checkpoint: Checkpoint
    best_justified_checkpoint: Checkpoint
    proposer_boost_root: Root

>     has_equivocated: Set[ValidatorIndex]

Reviewer: `has_equivocated` reads like a predicate rather than a set. I suggest we name it `equivocated_indices` or `equivocating_indices`

    target = attestation.data.target
    beacon_block_root = attestation.data.beacon_block_root
    for i in attesting_indices:

>         if i not in store.has_equivocated:

Reviewer: suggest prefiltering the set to avoid the extra nested for loop

```python
non_equivocating_attesting_indices = [i for i in attesting_indices if i not in store.has_equivocated
for i in attesting_indices:
    ...

    # Update latest messages for attesting indices
    update_latest_messages(store, indexed_attestation.attesting_indices, attestation)
```

#### `on_attester_slashing`

```python
def on_attester_slashing(store: Store, attester_slashing: AttesterSlashing) -> None:
    """

>     Run ``on_attester_slashing`` upon receiving a new ``AttesterSlashing`` from either within a block or directly 
>     on the wire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Run ``on_attester_slashing`` immediately upon receiving a new ``AttesterSlashing``
    from either within a block or directly on the wire.
```

    """
    attestation_1 = attester_slashing.attestation_1
    attestation_2 = attester_slashing.attestation_2
    assert is_slashable_attestation_data(attestation_1.data, attestation_2.data)
    state = store.block_states[store.justified_checkpoint.root]
    assert is_valid_indexed_attestation(state, attestation_1)
    assert is_valid_indexed_attestation(state, attestation_2)

    indices = set(attestation_1.attesting_indices).intersection(attestation_2.attesting_indices)

>     for index in sorted(indices):

Reviewer: why sorted? `has_equivocated` is a set so it doesn't really matter the order they are inserted in

    # Update latest messages for attesting indices
    update_latest_messages(store, indexed_attestation.attesting_indices, attestation)
```

#### `on_attester_slashing`

> *Note*: `on_attester_slashing` should be called while syncing and a node MUST maintain the equivocation set of `AttesterSlashing`s from at least the last finalized checkpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note*: `on_attester_slashing` should be called while syncing and a client MUST maintain the equivocation set of `AttesterSlashing`s from at least the latest finalized checkpoint.
```

```python
def on_attester_slashing(store: Store, attester_slashing: AttesterSlashing) -> None:
    """
    Run ``on_attester_slashing`` immediately upon receiving a new ``AttesterSlashing``
    from either within a block or directly on the wire.
    """
    attestation_1 = attester_slashing.attestation_1
    attestation_2 = attester_slashing.attestation_2
    assert is_slashable_attestation_data(attestation_1.data, attestation_2.data)

>     state = store.block_states[store.justified_checkpoint.root]

Reviewer 2: Why do we use the state of the justified block here? It seems strange, as the slashing will have been verified previously against the head state and may fail verification here, or may verify with a different set of slashable indices. In Lighthouse I'm using the head state for this reason, but can change to justified if necessary

Lighthouse comment about this: https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/blob/94bc85e1f731217c113ff79b427cdeb73b3309cd/consensus/fork_choice/src/fork_choice.rs#L1108-L1116

Lighthouse PR: https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/pull/3371

cc @adiasg

Author: > Why do we use the state of the justified block here?

To maintain uniformity with the fork choice - the [validator set at the justified state](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blame/9f643d8dbf678430bc6707f0e5b914d0bf62545c/specs/phase0/fork-choice.md#L177-L183) is used for computing the fork choice. 

> It seems strange, as the slashing will have been verified previously against the head state and may fail verification here, or may verify with a different set of slashable indices.

The intention of `on_attester_slashing` is to censor equivocating validators as soon as an implicating `AttesterSlashing` is received by the node, irrespective of whether those validators are slashable. We are not checking `is_slashable_validator` here (which is quite dependent on the state!), rather only `is_slashable_attestation_data` & `is_valid_indexed_attestation` which do not have much state dependence.

The Lighthouse PR is adding to `store.equivocating_indices` only those validator indices from `attester_slashing` that are slashable in the head state. This should be changed to remove the slashability check.

Reviewer 2: Thank you!

Sorry I don't know what got into me, I got so caught up in re-using `get_slashable_indices` that I didn't realise I shouldn't be filtering already slashed validators at all. Thanks again

Author: No worries at all! 😄
